                          CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
THE USCIS 2025 CIVICS TEST STUDY GUIDE



One Nation,
One People




                                                             1
ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT APPLYING FOR NATURALIZATION?
SCAN THIS QR CODE TO ACCESS INFORMATION TO HELP YOU PREPARE FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP.
             USCIS CITIZENSHIP RESOURCE CENTER
             THIS QR CODE LINKS YOU TO USCIS RESOURCES AND PUBLICATIONS TO REVIEW
             WHILE YOU ARE PREPARING FOR YOUR NATURALIZATION TEST. YOU CAN ALSO GO
             TO USCIS.GOV/CITIZENSHIP
 4                    ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                             CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
 THE USCIS 2025 CIVICS TEST STUDY GUIDE



One Nation,
One People




One Nation, One People: The USCIS 2025 Civics Test Study Guide (M-1175)
                                                                                5
6   ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                       TABLE
                                 CHAPTER      OFU.S.
                                         1: THE  CONTENTS
                                                     CONSTITUTION




Chapter 1: The U.S. Constitution................................................................................8


Chapter 2: The Legislative Branch.............................................................................18


Chapter 3: The Executive Branch...............................................................................24


Chapter 4: The Judicial Branch. ................................................................................29


Chapter 5: Rights and Responsibilities.......................................................................33


Chapter 6: U.S. Geography. ......................................................................................38


Chapter 7: Early American History.............................................................................43


Chapter 8: The American Revolutionary War and the Declaration of Independence.........47


Chapter 9: A New Government and an Expanding Nation. ............................................52


Chapter 10: The Civil War.........................................................................................58


Chapter 11: American History: 1900 – 2001.................................................................62


Chapter 12: American Symbols and Holidays..............................................................69


Index: 128 Civics Test Questions and Answers.............................................................77




                                                                                                                       7
CHAPTER 1
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The U.S. Constitution.
❏ When the Constitution was written.
❏ What the Constitution says.
❏ Why the Constitution is the most important document in
  the United States government.


                                 The U.S. Constitution was written in 1787. It is the oldest written
                                 constitution in the world. The Constitution sets up the government
                                 and enshrines the basic rights of the American People.

                                 The Constitution was written during the period when the country was
                                 created. Another word for created is “founded.” The period when the
                                 country was created is called the Founding Era. In 1787, famous leaders
                                 from around the country like George Washington, Benjamin Franklin,
                                 James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton came to Philadelphia,
                                 Pennsylvania, for a Constitutional Convention. The leaders who met at
                                 the Constitutional Convention are sometimes called the Founders. The
                                 Founders wrote the Constitution at the Constitutional Convention.

                                 When the Founders wrote the Constitution in 1787, it had a
                                 Preamble and seven sections. There have been changes made to
                                 the Constitution since it was written. A change to the Constitution
                                 is called an amendment. There are 27 amendments to the
                                 Constitution. The 27 amendments are listed after the seven sections
                                 of the original Constitution.




 8                    ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                            CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION




“Scene at the Signing of the Constitution,” by Howard Chandler Christy. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.


                                               WE THE PEOPLE
                                               The beginning of the Constitution is called the Preamble. The Preamble
                                               to the Constitution explains why the Founders wrote the Constitution.

                                               The Preamble also says that under the Constitution, the people of the
                                               United States will have self-government. This means that the people
                                               of the United States are not governed by a king or a queen. Instead,
                                               the people of the United States govern themselves. The people of the
                                               United States govern themselves by electing representatives who serve
                                               in the local, state, and U.S. governments.

                                               The idea of self-government is in the first three words of the
                                               Constitution. These words are, “We the people”.




The Constitution of the United States.
Courtesy of the National Archives.

                                                                                                                 9
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
The Three Branches of Government
The first three sections of the Constitution set up the U.S. government.
These sections of the Constitution describe the three branches or parts of the U.S. government. The U.S.
government is also called the federal government.

The three branches of government are called the Legislative Branch, the Executive Branch, and the
Judicial Branch.

                                   U.S. Government




  Legislative Branch                   Executive Branch                         Judicial Branch
      (Congress)                          (President)                           (Supreme Court)


The Legislative Branch is also called Congress. There are two parts to the U.S. Congress. They are called
the House of Representatives and the Senate.


                              Two Parts of Congress
                                            U.S.Congress



                   U.S.House of                                      U.S. Senate
                 Respresentatives




 10                     ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                       CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

The President of the United States is in charge of the Executive Branch.
Other parts of the Executive Branch include:
    ● The Vice President of the United States
    ● The President’s Cabinet
        ○ In government, a “cabinet” is another word for a “group of advisors.”
          The President’s Cabinet advises the President.
    ● The Executive Departments and agencies in the U.S. government

The parts of the Judicial Branch are the Supreme Court and other federal courts.
The Supreme Court is the highest court in the U.S.




The U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.


                                                                                   11
Separation of Powers
During the Constitutional Convention, the Founders were afraid that if one person or group has too much
power, then they could take over the country. They decided to separate the powers of government so that
no one person or group could become too powerful. The Constitution gives each branch of government
different powers. This is called “separation of powers.” Separation of powers stops one branch from
becoming too powerful.

The powers of each branch of government are:
   ● The Legislative Branch (Congress) makes federal laws.
   ● The Executive Branch enforces federal laws.
   ● The Judicial Branch reviews federal laws.




                         3 Branches of Government
                                               Constitution
                                     (provided a separation of powers)




                   Legislative Branch        Executive Branch             Judicial Branch
                  (makes federal laws)     (enforces federal laws)     (reviews federal laws)



                                                                                   Supreme
                          Congress                  President                      Court


                                                                                   Other
                              Senate                     Vice                      Federal
                                                         President                 Courts


                               House of
                               Representatives               Cabinet




 12                     ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                  CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

Powers of the Federal Government
The Constitution also lists the powers that the federal government has, such as the power to protect the
people of the United States.

For example, under the Constitution, the federal government has the power to create an army to
defend the nation, and to declare war if the U.S. has been attacked or is under threat.
                                     The federal government also has the power to make treaties.
                                     A treaty is an agreement between two or more countries. Sometimes
                                     the federal government signs treaties with other countries to end
                                     wars or conflicts. Other times, the federal government signs treaties
                                     with countries to work together on issues like trade.

                                     Another power that the federal government has under the
                                     Constitution is to print money. Only the U.S. government has the
                                     power to print the dollar bills and coins that people use for money
                                     in the United States.




Members of the U.S. military.




U.S. coins and currency.             Signing of mutual cooperation treaty with Japan in the East Room of the White House,
                                     January 1960. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

                                                                                                                        13
STATE GOVERNMENTS
The fourth section of the Constitution explains how state governments
are set up. This section also explains how new states can join the
United States.
                                                                                      Washington, D.C., does not have
The Constitution says that each state will have a government that                     a governor because it is not a
has a legislative branch, an executive branch, and a judicial branch.                 U.S. state. Washington, D.C.,
                                                                                      residents should answer that
The person in charge of the executive branch for a state government                   D.C. does not have a governor.
is a called a governor. Each of the 50 states has a governor.
To find out who is the governor of your state now, please visit:
usa.gov/state-governor.

Under the Constitution, powers not delegated to the United States by
the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved for the
states respectively, or to the people.

For example, state governments have the power to provide the
people of their state with protection and safety. One way that state
governments do this is by providing the people in their state with police
departments and fire departments.

State governments also have the power to provide the people of
their state with schooling and education. Each state in the U.S. has
its own educational system for students in grade school, colleges and
universities, and adult education programs.




Students in a U.S. classroom.             Fighting fires is among a state’s powers.



 14                             ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                  CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

CHANGING THE CONSTITUTION                             SUPREME LAW OF THE LAND
The fifth section of the Constitution explains how    The sixth section of the Constitution says the
the Constitution can be changed. A change to          Constitution is the supreme law of the land in the
the Constitution is called an amendment. The          United States. This means that everyone living in
Founders wanted the people of the United States to    the United States must follow the Constitution. In
be able to make changes to the Constitution. They     the United States, we support the “rule of law.” This
believed that in order to have self-government, the   means that we believe that no one is above the law,
people of the United States should be able to make    and everyone must follow the law. This also means
changes to the Constitution and the government.       that the U.S. government, state governments, and
                                                      local governments must follow the Constitution and
For an amendment to be added to the Constitution      the rule of law.
it must be approved by three-fourths of the states
in the United States. Today there are 50 states in
the U.S. That means that 38 out of the 50 states
must approve an amendment for it to be added
to the Constitution. There are 27 amendments to
the Constitution.




Statue of Lady Justice



                                                                                                      15
APPROVING THE CONSTITUTION
The seventh section of the
Constitution says that the people              This map identifies the
                                               13 original states and
of the United States had to                    when they approved
approve the Constitution for it                the Constitution.                                                                 Massachusetts
to become the law of the land.
When the Founders wrote the                                                                               New York
Constitution, there were 13 states                                                                        (July 26, 1788)
                                                                                                                                      New Hampshire
in the U.S. The Constitution says                                                                                                     (June 21, 1788)

that nine of the 13 original states                                                                                                  Massachusetts
                                                                                                                                     (February 6, 1788)
must approve the Constitution.                                                                                                          Rhode Island
In 1788, New Hampshire became                                                       Pennsylvania                                        (May 29, 1790)

the ninth state to approve the
                                                                                    (December 12, 1787)
                                                                                                                                   Connecticut
                                                                                                                                   (January 9, 1788)
Constitution, and all 13 original                                                                           New Jersey(December 18, 1787)
states approved the Constitution                                                                               Delaware(December 7, 1787)
by 1790.
                                                                                    Virginia                       Maryland (April 28, 1788)
                                                                                    (June 25, 1788)



                                                                               North Carolina
                                                                               (November 21, 1789)
                                                                                                                Atlantic Ocean
                                                                         South
                                                                         Carolina
                                                                         (May 23, 1788)
                                                     Georgia
                                                     (January 2, 1788)




                                               AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION
                                               When the Constitution was written in 1787, it did not list any of
                                               the rights of individuals. Many of the Founders believed that the
                                               Constitution should include a list of the rights of people living in the
                                               United States.

                                               The Founders decided to add 10 amendments to the Constitution.
                                               The first 10 amendments to the Constitution are called the Bill of
                                               Rights. The Bill of Rights lists some of the basic rights of people living
                                               in the United States.

                                               There are 27 amendments to the Constitution. Some of
                                               the amendments that were added to the Constitution after the
                                               Bill of Rights describe who can be a U.S. citizen, and who can vote
                                               in elections in the United States.
The Bill of Rights to the U.S. Constitution.



  16                            ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
17
CHAPTER 2
THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH (CONGRESS)
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Legislative Branch of the U.S. government.          ❏ The Senate.
❏ The House of Representatives.                           ❏ The process for making federal laws.


                               The Legislative Branch is one branch or part of the government.
                               Another name for the Legislative Branch is the U.S. Congress.

                               The Constitution says that Congress makes federal laws. When the
                               Founders were writing the Constitution, they believed that the power
                               to make laws is the most important power in government. This is why
                               the first section of the Constitution describes Congress and the power
                               to make federal laws.

                               During the Constitutional Convention, the Founders agreed that the
                               people who make laws should represent the states or parts of states
                               where they lived.

                               When the Constitutional Convention started, the Founders did not agree
                               on how many representatives each state should have in Congress. Some
                               people thought that the number of representatives from each state
                               should be based on the number of people living in the state. Others
                               thought that each state should have the same number of representa-
                               tives, no matter how many people lived in the state. They came to an
                               agreement to have two parts to the U.S. Congress. The two parts to the
                               U.S. Congress are the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                               States that have more people have more representatives in the
                               House of Representatives, and every state in the United States
                               has two U.S. Senators.




18                  ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                              CHAPTER 2: THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH (CONGRESS)


                                                            U.S. Government




                              Legislative Branch                 Executive Branch            Judicial Branch
                                  (Congress)                        (President)              (Supreme Court)

                                       U.S. Congress


        U.S. House of
       Representatives                                 U.S. Senate




                 House of Representatives                                THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                      Wyoming
                                                                         Voting Members of the House of Representatives
                                                                         There are 435 voting members in the House of
                     1 voting member



                                                                         Representatives.

                                                                         Each state is divided into congressional districts. The
                                                                         435 voting members of the House of Representatives
                                                                         come from congressional districts from each of
                                                                         the 50 states. Each congressional district elects a
 California                                                              person to serve as a representative in the House of
 52 voting members
                                                                         Representatives.

                                                                         Some states have more representatives in the House
Example:                                                                 of Representatives than others.
California:                                                              This is because states that have more people
● is the state with the most people.                                     have more representatives in the House of
● has 52 voting members in the House of                                  Representatives.
  Representatives.
Wyoming:
● is the state with the least people.
● has one voting member in the House of
  Representatives.


                                                                                                                             19
Electing Members of the House of Representatives
Members of the House of Representatives are elected every
two years.

To get elected to the House of Representatives, a person must be at
least 25 years of age and live in the state where the congressional
district is located.

One right that is only for U.S. citizens is to run for federal
office. This means that a person must be a U.S. citizen to get elected to
the House of Representatives.

To find the name of your Representative for your congressional
district please visit: house.gov.

The Speaker of the House
The leader of the House of Representatives is called the Speaker
of the House.

To find the name of the current Speaker of the House, please visit:
speaker.gov.                                                                The United States Capitol in Washington,
                                                                            D.C., is the meeting place of the nation’s
                                                                            legislature, the U.S. Congress.


THE SENATE
U.S. Senators                                             Electing U.S. Senators
There are 100 U.S. Senators in the Senate.                U.S. Senators are elected for six years.
Senators represent all the people of a state.
                                                          To get elected to the Senate, a person must be at
Each state has two U.S. Senators.                         least 30 years of age and they must live in the state
                                                          that they represent.
Example:
                                                          One right that is only for U.S. citizens is to run
 ● The states of California and Wyoming                   for federal office. This means that a person must
   both have two U.S. Senators.
                                                          be a U.S. citizen to get elected to the Senate.
              Wyoming
                                                          To find the name of your U.S. Senators,
                                                          please visit: senate.gov.




                                                             Washington, D.C., does not have any senators
                                                             because it is not a U.S. state. Washington, D.C.,
California
                                                             residents should answer that D.C. does not have
                                                             a senator.


 20                          ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                  CHAPTER 2: THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH (CONGRESS)




                             U.S. Congress

                                    Two Parts

        U.S. House of
                                                                 U.S. Senate
       Representatives

            435 U.S.                                           100 U.S.
     Representatives in the                                 Senators in the
    House of Representatives                                  U.S. Senate

  The number of representatives
                                                             Each state has
for a state depends on the number
                                                              two senators
      of people that live there

          Represent a                                     Represent all of the
            district                                       people of a state


        2-year terms for                                     6-year terms
      U.S. Representatives                                 for U.S. Senators




                                                                                 21
MAKING FEDERAL LAWS
The Constitution says that Congress makes
federal laws. A “law” is another word for a “rule”
that people must follow. A “federal law” is another
word for a “rule” that everyone in the
United States must follow.

When members of Congress want to make a new
law, they write a “bill.” A bill is a proposal for a new
law. For Congress to pass a bill, a majority of both
the House of Representatives and the Senate must
vote for it. This means that more than half of the
voting members in the House of Representatives and
U.S. Senators must vote in support of the bill.

For example, there are 435 voting members in
the House of Representatives. For a bill to pass
the House of Representatives, 218 members (or the
majority of those voting and present) must vote in
favor of the bill.

There are 100 U.S. Senators in the Senate.
For most bills to pass the Senate, 51 U.S. Senators
(or the majority of those voting and present) must
vote in favor of it.

If both parts of Congress pass the bill, then the bill
is sent to the President of the United States.

If the President agrees with the bill, then the President
signs the bill into law. This means that everyone in the
country must follow the law that the President signed.

If the President does not agree with the bill, then
the President vetoes the bill. The word “veto”
means that the President did not sign the bill. Then
the bill does not become a law unless Congress votes
to override the veto.




                                                            The Oval Office of the White House. Photo by Cecil Stoughton.
                                                            Courtesy of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum.



 22                       ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
23
CHAPTER 3
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Executive Branch.
❏ The President of the United States.
❏ The agencies in the federal government.


                               The Executive Branch is one branch or part of the U.S. government.
                               The President of the United States is in charge of the Executive
                               Branch.

                               The other parts of the Executive Branch are the President’s Cabinet, the
                               Vice President of the United States, and the Executive Departments and
                               agencies in the federal government.

                               During the Constitutional Convention, the Founders were afraid
                               that if the President had too much power, then the President would be
                               above the law and could become a king or queen. The Founders believed
                               that in the United States no one is above the law. This is called the
                               “rule of law”. The Founders believed that the President should have the
                               power to protect and serve the people of the United States. They also
                               believed that the President should follow the rule of law.

                               THE PRESIDENT’S CABINET
                               The Executive Branch includes the Executive Departments and agencies
                               that are part of the federal government. The Executive Departments
                               and agencies help the President to enforce laws, protect the country,
                               work with other countries, and provide services to the people of the
                               United States.

                               The people who lead the Executive Departments are mostly called
                               Secretaries. For example, the person who leads the Department of
                               Homeland Security is called the Secretary of Homeland Security.


24                  ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                             CHAPTER 3: THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

                               U.S. Government




 Legislative Branch                  Executive Branch                  Judicial Branch
     (Congress)                         (President)                    (Supreme Court)


The leaders of the Executive Departments are also called Cabinet-level
positions because the people who lead each agency are part of the                    The Cabinet-level positions
President’s Cabinet. A “cabinet” is another word for a “group of                     include:
advisors.” The President’s Cabinet advises the President.                            ● Attorney General
                                                                                     ● Secretary of Agriculture
The President can also choose to have other people from the federal                  ● Secretary of Commerce
government serve on the Cabinet.                                                     ● Secretary of Education
                                                                                     ● Secretary of Energy
Each Executive Department has many smaller agencies. For example,                    ● Secretary of Health and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is part of the Department of                 Human Services
Justice. Another example is U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services                ● Secretary of Homeland Security
(USCIS). USCIS is part of the Department of Homeland Security.                       ● Secretary of Housing and Urban
                                                                                       Development
                                                                                     ● Secretary of the Interior
                                                                                     ● Secretary of Labor
                                                                                     ● Secretary of State
                                                                                     ● Secretary of Transportation
                                                                                     ● Secretary of the Treasury
                                                                                     ● Secretary of Veterans Affairs
The leader of the Department of Justice is not called a “Secretary.” The leader of
the Department of Justice is called the Attorney General.
                                                                                     ● Secretary of War (Defense)
                                                                                     ● Vice-President
                                                                                     ● Administrator of the Environmental
                                                                                       Protection Agency
                                                                                     ● Administrator of the Small
                                                                                       Business Administration
                                                                                     ● Director of the Central
                                                                                       Intelligence Agency
                                                                                     ● Director of the Office of
                                                                                       Management and Budget
                                                                                     ● Director of National Intelligence
                                                                                     ● United States Trade Representative
President Donald J. Trump’s Cabinet, 2025.

                                                                                                                      25
THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF
The President of the United States is the                     There are six branches of the U.S. Armed Forces:
Commander in Chief of the military. This means
that the President is in charge of everyone serving
in U.S. military. Another term for the U.S. military
is the U.S. Armed Forces.

In the United States, serving in the U.S. Armed
Forces is voluntary. Today there are over 2 million
people serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. For more
information about the U.S. Armed Forces, please visit:
U.S. Department of Defense at www.defense.gov.




VOTING FOR PRESIDENT
U.S. citizens vote for President in November,
and the President is elected for four years. A
person can only be elected to be President two
times. This means a person can get elected for four
years, and then get reelected for four more years.

When a person runs for President of the United States
they are nominated by a political party. Today, there
are two major political parties in the United States.
One party is called the Democratic Party, and the
other party is called the Republican Party.

To find the name of the President of the United
States now, please visit: whitehouse.gov.




A donkey icon represents       An Elephant icon represents
the Democratic Party.          the Republican Party


                                                             A young woman cast her ballot in the 1964 presidential election.
                                                             Courtesy of the Library of Congress.


 26                        ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                           CHAPTER 3: THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH




President Donald Trump, 45th & 47th President of the United States.   President William McKinley, 25th President of the United States.


THE VICE PRESIDENT
The Vice President of the United States works for the                 To find the name of the Vice President of the United
President in the Executive Branch. The Vice President                 States now, please visit: whitehouse.gov.
is the President of the Senate, an advisor to the
President, and a member of the President’s Cabinet.                   If both the President and the Vice President can
                                                                      no longer serve, then the Speaker of the House of
Under the Constitution, the role of the Vice President                Representatives becomes President.
is very important. The Constitution says that if the
President can no longer serve, then the Vice                          To find the name of the current Speaker of the
President becomes President. There have been                          House, please visit: speaker.gov.
some Presidents who have not served all four years
of their term. For example, there are Presidents who
died while serving in office. When this has happened,
the Vice President becomes the President.

                                                  Line of Succession

          President                                      Vice President                              Speaker of the House



                                                                                                                                  27
28   ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                             CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION




CHAPTER 4
THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Judicial Branch.
❏ The Supreme Court.


                               The Judicial Branch is one branch or part of the government.

                               The parts of the Judicial Branch are the Supreme Court and other
                               federal courts. The Supreme Court is the highest court in the United
                               States. This means that the Supreme Court’s decision about a law or
                               legal case is final. The other federal courts are sometimes called lower
                               federal courts.

                               When the Founders wrote the Constitution, they did not want the
                               judges who serve on the Supreme Court and on other federal courts
                               to make decisions about the law based on politics or elections.
                               Judges who serve on the Supreme Court and other federal courts are
                               sometimes called federal judges. The Founders wanted federal judges
                               to make decisions based on the Constitution and the rule of law. This is
                               why federal judges are not elected to office. The President nominates
                               someone to become a federal judge on the Supreme Court or on a
                               lower federal court. That person must also be approved by the U.S.
                               Senate to become a federal judge.

                               The process for a person to become a federal judge is an example of
                               the separation of powers of government because all three branches
                               of government are involved. The separation of powers is important
                               because it stops one branch of government from becoming too
                               powerful.




                                                                                                   29
                         U.S. Government                                       Federal Court System

                                                                                  U.S. Supreme Court
                                                                                          1 Court



                                                                                  U.S. Court of Appeals
                                                                                        13 Circuits



                                                                                   U.S. District Courts
 Legislative Branch             Executive Branch             Judicial Branch            94 Districts
     (Congress)                    (President)               (Supreme Court)




Supreme Court Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia.




 30                           ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                    CHAPTER 4: THE JUDICIAL BRANCH

THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
One of the important roles of the Judicial Branch is to review laws.
This means that they can decide if a law follows the Constitution. In the
United States, the Constitution is the Supreme Law of the Land. This
means that everyone in the United States must follow the Constitution.
This also means that the laws that Congress writes must also follow the
Constitution. If someone in the United States thinks that a law does not
follow the Constitution, that person can bring a legal case to a federal
court to challenge the law.
                                                                            Statue of Lady Justice
Each of the courts in the Judicial Branch can only review a law if there
is a legal case before it. This means that the Supreme Court and the
lower federal courts can only make a decision about a law or a legal
case when they have the legal authority to hear a case that is brought
before the court.

The Supreme Court may review a decision about a law or legal case
from a lower federal court. If the Supreme Court reviews a decision
about a law or legal case, then they must make a decision. There are
no other courts in the United States that can change the decision of
the Supreme Court. This is one reason that the Supreme Court is the         Courtroom of the Supreme Court of the
highest court in the United States.                                         United States.


                                      SUPREME COURT JUSTICES
                                      There are nine justices on the Supreme Court. The word “justice” is
                                      another word for “judge.” After the Supreme Court reviews a case,
                                      the justices meet to discuss the case and vote on the decision.

                                      One justice on the Supreme Court is called the Chief Justice of the United
                                      States. The Chief Justice has many duties. Some of the duties are:
                                         ● Leading the other Supreme Court justices in choosing which
There are nine justices on the             cases to hear.
U.S. Supreme Court.                      ● Managing the courtroom when the Supreme Court is hearing
                                           a case.
                                         ● Leading discussions with other Supreme Court justices about
   A majority means that more              deciding a case.
   than half of the justices vote
   the same way on a case.            The Chief Justice serves as a leader on the Supreme Court, but the
   For example: When 9 Supreme        justices make their own decisions when voting on each case. When a
   Court Justices hear a case, at     majority of the justices vote the same way on a case, they write a
   least 5 justices must vote the     decision that explains their reasons.
   same on the case in order to
   have a majority.                   To find the name of the current Chief Justice of the United States,
                                      please visit: supremecourt.gov/about/justices.aspx.



                                                                                                               31
32   ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                             CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION




CHAPTER 5
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Bill of Rights.                                     ❏ The rights and responsibilities of
❏ The rights and responsibilities of                        U.S. citizens.
  everyone living in the United States.

                               Under our Constitution, individuals living in the United States have
                               rights or freedoms. The word “freedom” is another word that means
                               “right.” Some rights belong to everyone living in the United States, and
                               some rights only belong to U.S. citizens.

                               After the Constitutional Convention, the people of the United States
                               had to approve the Constitution. Many people in the country did not
                               like the Constitution in 1787 because it did not include a list of rights.
                               Some of the Founders who were at the Constitutional Convention
                               began to write essays called the Federalist Papers. The Federalist
                               Papers supported the passage of the U.S. Constitution. The writers
                               of the Federalist Papers were James Madison, Alexander Hamilton,
                               and John Jay. The Federalist Papers included 85 essays about the




                               The Bill of Rights to the U.S. Constitution.


                                                                                                     33
Constitution, and they were printed in newspapers between October 1787 –
May 1788. All of the writers of the Federalist Papers signed the essays with the
name “Publius”. The people who supported the Constitution agreed to add
amendments to the Constitution that included a list of rights. An amendment
is a change to the Constitution. Once the supporters of the Constitution
agreed to add a list of rights, many more people in the United States decided
to support the Constitution. In 1791, the first 10 amendments were added
to the Constitution. They include some of the basic rights of U.S. citizens
and individuals living in the United States. The first 10 amendments to the
Constitution are called the Bill of Rights.


                                                                                     The Federalist Papers supported
                                                                                     passing the U.S. Constitution.


RIGHTS & FREEDOMS OF EVERYONE LIVING IN THE UNITED STATES TODAY

There are five rights or freedoms in the First Amendment.


5 rights listed in the First Amendment
 • Speech
 • Religion                                                  These are rights of everyone living in the
 • To assemble (gather)                                      United States.
 • The press (media)
 • To petition (write to) the government



One right or freedom in the First Amendment is the Freedom of Speech. People in the U.S. have the
right to say or write what they want without fear of going to jail.

People can use their Freedom of Speech to participate in American democracy. For example, people can
participate in American democracy by writing to a newspaper or publicly giving their opinion about
an issue or policy.

Another right or freedom in the First Amendment is the Freedom of Religion. People in the U.S. have
the right to practice any religion, or not practice a religion.

The other amendments in the Bill of Rights list other types of rights. For example, the Sixth Amendment
lists some of the rights for people who have been accused of breaking the law. The Sixth Amendment
says that a person accused of breaking the law has the right to a trial with a jury to decide if that person
is innocent or guilty.


 34                      ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                      CHAPTER 5: RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDIVIDUALS LIVING IN THE UNITED STATES
Everyone living in the United States is responsible for following the
“rule of law.” This means that everyone living in the United States
must obey the law.

For example, it is the law that everyone living in the United States must
pay income taxes. The law says that each year, people are required to
send in a federal income tax form to the U.S. government. The last day
that people can send in their federal income tax forms is April 15.

Another responsibility for men who are U.S. citizens or legal permanent                    Uniform patches and identification plates
                                                                                           from branches of the U.S. military.
residents is to register for the Selective Service. All men who are U.S.
citizens or legal residents and between the age of 18 and 26 must
register for the Selective Service.




                                                                                           Voting Rights Timeline
                                                                                           The following bullets
                                                                                           identify the Amendments
                                                                                           and dates that correspond
                                                                                           with each answer choice
                                                                                           from Q48 in the text:
                                                                                           • 26th Amendment (1971)
                                                                                           • 24th Amendment (1964)
Voting booth in Atascadero, California, in 2008. Photo by Ace Armstrong. Courtesy of the
Polling Place Photo Project.                                                               • 19th Amendment (1920)
VOTING IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS                                                                • 15th Amendment (1870)
In the United States, voting in federal elections is a right and a
responsibility that is only for U.S. citizens. Participating in federal                    Other potential dates that
elections is how U.S. citizens vote for U.S. Representatives, U.S.                         address the expansion of
Senators, and the President.                                                               voting rights include:
There are four amendments to the Constitution about who can                                • Voting Rights Act of 1965
vote in federal elections. These amendments say:                                           • Civils Rights Act of 1964
       ● citizens 18 and older (can vote).                                                 • Indian Citizenship Act
       ● you don’t have to pay (a poll tax) to vote.                                         of 1924
       ● any citizen can vote (women and men can vote).
       ● a male citizen of any race (can vote).

Currently, U.S. citizens 18 and older can vote in federal elections.


                                                                                                                                35
NATURALIZATION AND U.S. CITIZENSHIP
The United States has welcomed immigrants from all over the world
who have helped shape and define our country.                                             To become a naturalized
                                                                                          U.S. citizen, a person must:
For more information on the eligibility requirements and                                  ● be 18 years old;
process for becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen, please visit:
uscis.gov/naturalization-eligibility.                                                     ● be a lawful permanent resident;
                                                                                          ● submit an application for
When applicants for naturalization take the Oath of Allegiance, they make                   naturalization with fees;
important promises of loyalty to the United States. The promises that                     ● meet the residence and presence
applicants make when they become a United States citizen are to:
                                                                                            in the U.S. requirements;
       ● give up loyalty to other countries;
                                                                                          ● be a person of good moral
       ● defend the Constitution and laws of the United States;                             character and show attachment to
       ● obey the laws of the United States;                                                the principles and ideals of the U.S.
       ● serve in the U.S. military (if needed);                                            Constitution;

       ● serve (do important work for) the nation (if needed); and                        ● be able to read, write, speak and
                                                                                            understand English and have
       ● be loyal to the United States.                                                     knowledge and an understanding
                                                                                            of U.S. history and government
During the naturalization ceremony, applicants for naturalization will raise                (civics);
their right hand say the Oath of Allegiance. At that time, they become U.S.
citizens. Naturalization is one way that a person can become a U.S. citizen.              ● complete the naturalization test
Other ways a person can become a U.S. citizen include:                                      and interview process; and
       ● being born in the United States, under conditions set by the                     ● attend a naturalization ceremony
         14th Amendment.                                                                    and take the Oath of Allegiance
       ● deriving citizenship, under the conditions set by Congress.




Applicants for naturalization take the Oath of Allegiance at a naturalization ceremony.


 36                            ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
37
CHAPTER 6
U.S. GEOGRAPHY
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ U.S. states and territories.    ❏ Mountains and rivers in                                        ❏ The U.S. capital.
❏ The U.S. borders.                 the United States.


                                 STATES AND TERRITORIES
                                 When the U.S. first became a country in 1776 there were 13 original
                                 states. All of the 13 original states are located on the East Coast of the
                                 United States.

                                 Today, the U.S. has 50 states. This is why the American flag has 50
                                 stars. There is one star for each state.

                                 On August 21, 1959, Hawaii became the 50th state to join the United States.

                                 The U.S. also has five territories. A U.S. territory is an area that is part of
                                 the United States, but a territory is not a state.

                                 The 13 original states are:                                       The five U.S. territories are:

                                                                                                                       Guam
                                                                                Massachusetts
                                                                                                     Virgin Islands
                                                                New York

                                                                                  New Hampshire
                                                                           Massachusetts

                                                 Pennsylvania                       Rhode Island
                                                                                Connecticut           Puerto Rico
                                                                 New Jersey
                                                                   Delaware
                                                                                                                      Northern
                                                                     Maryland
                                                                                                                      Mariana
                                                 Virginia
                                                                                                                       Islands
                                              North Carolina
                                                                   Atlantic Ocean
                                                                                                    American Samoa
                                           South
                                           Carolina
                                 Georgia




38                  ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                   CHAPTER 6 – U.S. GEOGRAPHY




                                                                                                                                  gton, D.C.
                                                                                                                           Washin




                                                                                                                              NORTHERN
                                                                 HAWAII                                   VIRGIN ISLANDS      MARIANA
                                                                                         GUAM                                 ISLANDS

                           ALASKA


                                                                                  PUERTO RICO
                                                                                                      AMERICAN SAMOA




This map shows the 50 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and the 5 U.S. territories, with Canada and Mexico




There are 50 stars in the American flag for the 50 U.S. states


                                                                                                                                               39
U.S. BORDERS
The United States is located in North America, and it is bordered by an ocean on the East Coast and the
West Coast.

The U.S. is also bordered by one country to the north and another country to the south. The country that
borders the U.S. to the north is called Canada. There are 13 states in the U.S. that border Canada.
The ocean on the West Coast of the United States                The ocean on the East Coast of the United States
is called the Pacific Ocean.                                    is called the Atlantic Ocean.




         ALASKA




                                                                                                 ICA
                                                                                          ME R
                                                                              GULF OF A



This map shows the 50 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., with Canada and Mexico.

The states that border Canada are:                              The country that borders the U.S. to the south is
                                                                called Mexico. There are four states in the U.S. that
   ● Maine                                                      border Mexico.
   ● New Hampshire
   ● Vermont                                                    The states that border Mexico are:
   ● New York                                                      ● California
   ● Pennsylvania                                                  ● Arizona
   ● Ohio                                                          ● New Mexico
   ● Michigan                                                      ● Texas
   ● Minnesota
   ● North Dakota
   ● Montana
   ● Idaho
   ● Washington
   ● Alaska

 40                          ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                             CHAPTER 6 – U.S. GEOGRAPHY

MOUNTAINS AND RIVERS
There are two large mountain ranges in the United
States. The Appalachian Mountains are in the eastern                                   tains
                                                                                    oun
                                                                                           M
                                                                                                so
                                                                                  yM
                                                                                               is
                                                                                                     ur

                                                                                                                                        ver
United States, and the Rocky Mountains are in the                               ck
                                                                                                          iR

                                                                                                                                      Ri
                                                                              Ro
                                                                                                                              siss
western United States.
                                                                                                                           Mis i pp i
                                                                                                           iver

                                                                                                                                                     cia
                                                                                                                                                        nM
                                                                                                                                                          oun
There are also many rivers in the United States. The                                                                                                         tain
                                                                                                                                                                 s
two longest rivers in the U.S. are the Mississippi                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                   ala
                                                                                                                                                  pp

River and the Missouri River. The Mississippi River
runs north to south, and it is located in the middle
of the country. The Missouri River connects to the
Mississippi River, and it runs across several states in This map shows the two longest rivers, the Mississippi River and
the West.                                               the Missouri River.

WASHINGTON D.C.
                                                                                    The five U.S. territories are:
                                                                                                                                                                        NORTHERN
                                                                                                                                                                        MARIANAS

The capital of the United States is called Washington, D.C.
                                                                                                HAWAII                    AMERICAN SAMOA                                ISLANDS

                                                                     ALASKA



                                                                                          Charlotte Amalie                PUERTO RICO          Guam
Washington, D.C., is named after George Washington. George                                      Virgin Islands
                                                                                                                                                  VIRGIN ISLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                        GUAM


Washington was the first President of the United States.                                                                                          Hagåtña
He is also known as the “Father of Our Country”.
                                                                                                 Puerto Rico
The name of the capital has the letters “D.C.” These letters mean
                                                                                                                                              Northern
“District of Columbia.” Washington, D.C., is not part of a state.                                              San Juan
                                                                                                                                              Mariana
                                                                                                                                                               Saipan

Washington, D.C., is located between the states of Maryland and                                                                                Islands
Virginia, and it is controlled by the federal government.
                                                                                               American Samoa

Each state in the United States also has a state capital. Use the map                           Fagatogo

below to find the capital of your state.




        ALASKA




                   Juneau




               HAWAII

    Honolulu




This map shows the 50 U.S. states and Washington, D.C.

                                                                                                                                                                   41
42   ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                            CHAPTER 7: EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY




CHAPTER 7
EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ Early American History.                ❏ The people living in the North
❏ The Colonial Period (1607 – 1776).       America before 1776.

                               EUROPEAN COLONIES
                               In the 1400s, some European countries developed ships that could sail
                               across the ocean. Spain was the first country to send ships across the
                               Atlantic Ocean.

                               They did not know that the continents of North America and South
                               America were between Europe and Asia. North and South America are
                               sometimes called the Americas.

                               The Europeans also did not know that there were millions of people
                               living in North and South America. The people living in the Americas
                               before the Europeans arrived are called Native Americans.

                               By the 1500s, Spain had created colonies across North America and
                               South America. Soon, other European countries like France, Portugal,
                               and England started creating their own colonies in the Americas.

                               NATIVE AMERICANS
                               Native Americans lived in North and South America for around 20,000
                               years before the Europeans arrived.

                               There were many different tribes of Native American people living
                               in the Americas. Each Native American tribe had their own culture,
                               religion, traditions, language, and form of government. Many tribes
                               moved around and relied on hunting and gathering for food. There
                               were also tribes that stayed in one place and relied on farming for food.
                               Some tribes lived in large cities and had complex forms of government
                               and written languages.


                                                                                                    43
Before the Europeans arrived,
there were more than 50 million
Native Americans living in North
and South America. More than 10
million Native Americans lived
on the land in North America
that became the United States.
After Europeans arrived in North
and South America, millions
of Native Americans died from
diseases brought by Europeans.
Many Native Americans also died
from wars and conflicts with
Europeans.

By the 1600s, there were about 6
million Native Americans living in
the Americas, and about 1 million
Native Americans still living in      Illustration of the town of Pomeiock by John White. Courtesy of the Jamestown Yorktown
North America.                        Foundation collection.

THE COLONIAL PERIOD (1607 – 1776)
In 1607, the country of England created its
first permanent settlement in North America.
It was called Jamestown. This started the
period in American history called the Colonial
Period. It lasted from 1607 – 1775. During the
Colonial Period, England created 13 colonies
in North America.

Many colonists who settled in Jamestown
came to North America because they
wanted economic opportunities. Some
colonists believed that it would be easier
to buy land for farming in North America.
Others thought they could find valuable
metals like gold and silver.

The first years in Jamestown were difficult
for the colonists. Many died from hunger,
disease, or the cold winter weather. Colonists
and Native Americans also fought over who
would control the land. Both colonists and        A scene of a busy street in Jamestown around 1650. Courtesy of the
Native Americans died during the fighting.        National Park Service.




 44                      ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                          CHAPTER 7: EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY

SLAVERY IN THE COLONIES
After the first few years, the colonists in Jamestown
began to have more success, and the number of
colonists grew. They moved to new areas and started
growing crops like tobacco and later cotton. The
colonists made a lot of money selling these crops to
England. They wanted to grow more crops, but they did
not have enough people to work on the farms.

Other European countries that had colonies took
people from Africa to the Americas and sold them
as slaves. Another term for “slave” is an “enslaved
person.” An enslaved person is someone who is forced
to work with no freedom. Millions of enslaved African
people were forced on ships and taken to North and
South America.

The first group of enslaved Africans were brought to
Jamestown in 1619. Enslaved Africans were forced to
work on farms in terrible conditions.

                                                                           An image of the first enslaved people from Africa arriving in
                                                                           Jamestown.




                          North                                                                                        Europe
                          America
                                                                                      England

                                                                                        France
                                                                                  Spain
                                           Plymouth                      At
                                        Jamestown                          l      Portugal


                                                                                   ean
                                                                                 Oc
                                                                             tic                              Africa
                                                                           an

                                                             South
                                                             America

This map shows the routes that colonists from Europe made when coming to North America and the routes that brought enslaved people from
Africa to North America and South America.

                                                                                                                                     45
THE 13 ORIGINAL COLONIES
As more colonists came to Jamestown, they started to create other
settlements. Soon these settlements became known as the colony of Virginia.

In 1620, a group of English colonists called the Pilgrims created the
colony of Massachusetts. Many of these colonists came to North
America because they wanted religious freedom.

Soon more colonists from England began coming to North America and            “Pilgrims Going to Church,” by George
                                                                              Henry Boughton. Courtesy of the Library
created more colonies. They created 13 colonies on the East Coast of          of Congress.
North America.

The Colonial Period ended when the colonists living in the 13 original
colonies declared their independence from Great Britain in 1776.
                                       The 13 original colonies were:
  When the Colonial Period             ● New Hampshire ● Delaware
  started in 1607, the                                                                                                        Massachusetts
                                       ● Massachusetts ● Maryland
  colonists were part of the                                                                                  New York
                                       ● Rhode Island  ● Virginia
  country of England. England                                                                                                   New Hampshire


  is on the island of Britain.         ● Connecticut   ● North Carolina                                                  Massachusetts

                                                                                                                                  Rhode Island
  The country of Scotland              ● New York      ● South Carolina                        Pennsylvania
                                                                                                                              Connecticut

  is also on the island of             ● New Jersey    ● Georgia                                               New Jersey
                                                                                                                 Delaware
  Britain. In 1707, England            ● Pennsylvania                                          Virginia            Maryland

  and Scotland became                                                                                            Atlantic Ocean
  one country called Great                                                                  North Carolina


  Britain. After 1707, the 13                                                            South
                                                                                         Carolina
  original colonies were part                                                  Georgia

  of Great Britain.




 46                       ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                             CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION




CHAPTER 8
THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR &
THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The American Revolutionary War.                   ❏ The creation of the United States of
❏ The Declaration of Independence.                    America.


                               CAUSES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR
                               In 1775, the colonists went to war with Great Britain. This war
                               was called the American Revolutionary War. During the American
                               Revolutionary War, the colonists declared their independence from
                               Great Britain, and they created the United States of America. The
                               American Revolutionary War started in 1775. It ended in 1783 when
                               Great Britain signed a treaty that said they agreed that the United
                               States was an independent country.

                               The reason the colonists fought the British was because they did
                               not have self-government.

                               When the colonists created the 13 colonies, each colony had its own
                               colonial congress. A colonial congress was a legislative branch that
                               made laws for each colony.

                               Great Britain allowed the colonies to have a colonial congress as long
                               as they paid taxes to Great Britain, obeyed all other British laws, and
                               provided Great Britain with materials like cotton, tobacco, and rice.

                               In the 1760s, Great Britain was fighting a war both in Europe and in
                               North America. Great Britain needed help paying for the war. They
                               passed laws that increased taxes on the 13 original colonies.
                               The colonists did not think it was fair that Great Britain raised their



                                                                                                         47
“Washington Taking Command of the American Army,” by Currier & Ives. Courtesy of the National Archives, 532915.

taxes without allowing representatives from the colonies to vote on it.
Many colonists began to protest against the taxes because they thought
it was not fair to have taxation without representation.

Great Britain responded by passing laws to punish the colonists. Great
Britain made the colonists pay more taxes and made the colonial
congresses illegal. These taxes and laws made the colonists even
angrier. Many colonists no longer wanted to be part of Great Britain.
They wanted to create their own country and govern themselves.

In 1775, colonists in Massachusetts began fighting the British. Soon,
all 13 original colonies were fighting against Great Britain. The
colonists created an army, and George Washington was named the
general of the colonial army during the American Revolutionary War.                     “George Washington at Princeton,” by
This is one reason that George Washington is called the “Father of                      Charles Willson Peale. Courtesy of the U.S.
Our Country”.                                                                           Senate.



 48                          ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
     CHAPTER 8: THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR AND THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
The Declaration of Independence was adopted on July 4, 1776.
The Declaration of Independence announced our independence
from Great Britain. This is why we celebrate Independence Day
on July 4th.

Another word for “Declaration” is “statement.” Another word for
“Independence” is “freedom.” The Declaration of Independence is a
“statement of freedom.”
Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence.
In the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson wrote that
everyone has the right to:
   ● life;
   ● liberty; and
                                                                                        The Declaration of Independence.
   ● the pursuit of happiness.                                                          Courtesy of the National Archives.




In “Declaration of Independence,” by John Trumbull, Thomas          Assembly room of Independence Hall where the Declaration
Jefferson and his committee present the formal statement of         of Independence and the U.S. Constitution were both signed.
independence from Great Britain. Courtesy of the National Archives. Courtesy of the National Park Service.

When the colonists adopted the Declaration of Independence, they
created the United States of America. The 13 original colonies became                                                                     Massachusetts

the 13 original states.                                                                                                   New York

                                                                                                                                            New Hampshire
                                                                                                                                     Massachusetts

                                                                                                           Pennsylvania                       Rhode Island
The 13 original states are:                                                                                                               Connecticut
                                                                                                                           New Jersey
 ● New Hampshire                              ● Delaware                                                                     Delaware

 ● Massachusetts                              ● Maryland                                                   Virginia            Maryland


 ● Rhode Island                               ● Virginia                                                North Carolina
                                                                                                                             Atlantic Ocean
 ● Connecticut                                ● North Carolina                                       South
 ● New York                                   ● South Carolina                                       Carolina
                                                                                           Georgia
 ● New Jersey                                 ● Georgia
 ● Pennsylvania

                                                                                                                                                 49
WINNING THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR
The United States stopped fighting with Great Britain in 1781. The British Army surrendered to the United
States at the Battle of Yorktown in the state of Virginia. There was no more fighting, but the American
Revolutionary War did not officially end until the U.S. and Great Britain signed a treaty in 1783. In the treaty,
Great Britain agreed that the United States won the American Revolutionary War and that the United States
was an independent nation.




American, British and Hessian soldiers fight furiously at the Siege of Yorktown. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

Benjamin Franklin was a Founder who was famous for many things.
One thing Benjamin Franklin was famous for was being a diplomat.
A “diplomat” is someone who travels to other countries to represent
the United States. Benjamin Franklin was the diplomat who negotiated
the treaty with Great Britain in 1783.

    Other answer choices for this question:

     ● Oldest member of the                       ● Writer of Poor Richard’s Almanac
       Constitutional Convention                  ● Started first free libraries
     ● First Postmaster General of the
       United States

                                                                                              Benjamin Franklin

 50                            ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
51
CHAPTER 9
A NEW GOVERNMENT AND
AN EXPANDING NATION
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Constitutional Convention.                   ❏ The expansion of U.S. territory from
❏ The conflicts caused by expansion.                 the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean.



                               THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
                               The Constitution was written in 1787. It was written 11 years
                               after the Declaration of Independence was adopted in 1776.

                               After the United States won the American Revolutionary War, many
                               people were not happy with the way the country was being governed.
                               Many of the states disagreed on issues like trade, taxes, and other laws.

                               Some of the country’s leaders like George Washington, Alexander
                               Hamilton, and James Madison believed that the United States needed
                               a new government.

                               In 1787, leaders from all the 13 original states met in Philadelphia,
                               Pennsylvania to create a new government. This meeting was called the
                               Constitutional Convention. The Founders wrote the Constitution at
                               the Constitutional Convention.

                               After the Founders wrote the Constitution, the 13 original states had to
                               vote for the Constitution.

                               Not everyone in the country wanted the new Constitution. James
                               Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and John Jay wrote papers to
                               support passing the U.S. Constitution. These papers are called
                               the Federalist Papers. They published the Federalist Papers in
                               newspapers across the United States.

52                  ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                           CHAPTER 9: A NEW GOVERNMENT AND AN EXPANDING NATION

When the states voted to pass the Constitution, the United States created a new government. When
the new government was created, George Washington was elected the first President of the United
States. He served as President from 1789 – 1797. George Washington is also known as the “Father of
Our Country”.




George Washington takes the Oath of
Office at Federal Hall in New York City.




The Federalist Papers supported passing the   The Constitution of the United States. Courtesy of the National Archives.
U.S. Constitution.



                                                                                                                          53
THE U.S. BETWEEN 1787 – 1803
When the Constitution was written in 1787, the U.S. had 13 states on the East Coast of North America. The
United States also claimed to own the land between the 13 original states and the Mississippi River as U.S.
territory. The word “claim” means that other European countries that created colonies in the Americas
agreed that this territory was owned by the United States.

At this time, there were still over 600,000 Native Americans living on the land claimed by the United States.
Native American tribes had lived for thousands of years in the territory that the U.S. claimed. They did
not agree that the U.S. owned the land. This led to many conflicts and wars in the 1800s because Native
Americans were forced to defend their people, their culture, and their land.

THE LOUISIANA TERRITORY
In 1803, the United States purchased the Louisiana Territory from France. The Louisiana Territory included
a large amount of land between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains. France sold the Louisiana
Territory to the United States because they needed money to pay for wars they were fighting in Europe.




This map shows the U.S. in 1803 in green and the Louisiana Territory in pink.




 54                           ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                         CHAPTER 9: A NEW GOVERNMENT AND AN EXPANDING NATION

When the U.S. purchased the Louisiana Territory from France, more people began moving west into the new
territory. This led to more conflicts and wars between people from the United States and Native Americans.

For example, between the 1830s – 1850s, people from five Native American nations in the southern United
States were forced to move from their homeland to land in the Louisiana Territory. The five Native American
nations were the Cherokee, Muscogee, Seminole, Chickasaw, and Choctaw. This event is called the “Trail of
Tears” because thousands of people died from disease and starvation on the trail during the journey.

Throughout the 1800s, people from the United States continued to move West. This led to more conflicts
between Native Americans and people from the U.S., and more Native Americans were forced to move off
their land.

Native Americans are also called American Indians. Today, there are over 500 American Indian tribes in the
United States.

                                                                                        Some of the American
                                                                                        Indian tribes in the
                                                                                        United States are:
                                                                                        ● Cherokee    ● Cheyenne
                                                                                        ● Navajo      ● Arawak
                                                                                        ● Sioux       ● Shawnee
                                                                                        ● Chippewa    ● Mohegan
                                                                                        ● Choctaw     ● Huron
                                                                                        ● Pueblo      ● Oneida
                                                                                        ● Apache      ● Lakota
                                                                                        ● Iroquois    ● Crow
                                                                                        ● Creek       ● Teton
This map shows the U.S. in the 1850s.
                                                                                        ● Blackfeet   ● Hopi
                                                                                        ● Seminole    ● Inuit




This map shows the journey that Native Americans were forced to take during the Trail
of Tears.

                                                                                                                   55
THE MEXICAN-AMERICAN WAR
In 1845, Texas became the 28th state to join the United States. Until
1836, Texas was part of Mexico. Texas fought for independence from
Mexico and became its own country from 1836 – 1845.

At that time, Mexico still claimed much of the land in the southwest
between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. Mexico also
wanted Texas to be part of Mexico again.
                                                                           Colonel Charles May’s troops charge at the
In 1846, the U.S. went to war with Mexico over Texas and other land        Battle of Resaca de la Palma during the
that Mexico controlled in the southwest. This war is called the Mexican-   Mexican-American War.
American War.

The Mexican-American War was one war fought by the United                    Other wars that the United
States in the 1800s.                                                         States fought in the 1800s
                                                                             include:
The U.S. won the Mexican-American War in 1848. After the war, the             ● War of 1812
United States and Mexico signed a treaty. In the treaty, Mexico agreed        ● Civil War
that Texas was part of the United States. Mexico also agreed to sell          ● Spanish-American War
the land it claimed in the southwest to the U.S. The territory the U.S.
gained from Mexico later became the states of California, Nevada,
and Utah. It also included territory that became parts of the states of
Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Wyoming.

Today, the states of California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas all
border Mexico.




This map shows the United States after the Mexican-American War.

 56                          ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                       CHAPTER 9: A NEW GOVERNMENT AND AN EXPANDING NATION

EXPANDING INTO THE WEST
In 1850, California became the 31st state to join the United States, and it
was the first state to join the United States that bordered the Pacific Ocean.

By 1860, there were 33 states in the United States. The Atlantic
Ocean bordered the U.S. on the East Coast, and the Pacific Ocean
bordered the U.S. on the West Coast. The U.S. also claimed all of
the land between Canada and Mexico that today makes up the first 48
states to join the United States.

The growth of the country not only led to conflicts with Native
Americans and Mexico, it also led to conflicts between people from the
United States moving to the West. The biggest conflict was over slavery.         Other answer choices for
                                                                                 this question:
The conflicts over slavery in the South and the West were one                     ● economic reasons
problem that led to the Civil War.                                                ● states’ rights




                                                                                                            57
                              CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION




CHAPTER 10
THE CIVIL WAR
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ Slavery during the 1800s.           ❏ Abraham Lincoln.
❏ The Civil War.                      ❏ The end of slavery in the U.S.

                               SLAVERY IN THE 1800S
                               During the 1800s, the states in the southern United States began to
                               depend more on growing cotton and other crops for sale to countries in
                               Europe. Landowners depended on enslaved people to do the work.

                               As the U.S. gained more territory, many people who owned slaves in
                               the South wanted to move to the new states and territories in the West.
                               They wanted to find more land to grow crops like cotton, corn, and
                               tobacco. They also wanted slavery to be legal in the West so they could
                               bring enslaved people to work on the farms and grow crops.

                               Most northern states passed laws against slavery, and many people
                               in the North did not want slavery to be legal in the West. When people
                               from the North and the South began moving west in the 1800s, there
                               were many conflicts about whether slavery should be legal in the new
                               states and territories. Congress began to pass laws that said where
                               slavery was legal in the West and where it was not.




                               Picking cotton on a Georgia plantation. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

58                  ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                        CHAPTER 10: THE CIVIL WAR

FIGHTING FOR CIVIL RIGHTS AND FIGHTING TO
END SLAVERY
Between 1800 -1860 there were people who thought
that slavery should be illegal and that everyone in the
U.S. should have civil rights. For example, Frederick
Douglass escaped from slavery and became an
important civil rights leader in the 1800s. He is famous
for giving speeches and writing books about ending
slavery and protecting civil rights for all people.

Susan B. Anthony is another person who fought
for civil rights during the 1800s. She agreed with
Frederick Douglass that slavery should be illegal.
Susan B. Anthony also fought for women’s rights.
She wanted women to be treated equally to men, and
she wanted women to have the right to vote in the            Frederick Douglass. Courtesy       Susan B. Anthony. Courtesy of
United States.                                               of the National Park Service.      the Library of Congress.



THE BEGINNING OF THE CIVIL WAR
In 1861, the U.S. started fighting the Civil War. The Civil War is one war that the U.S. fought during the
1800s. The Civil War was fought between the North and the South between 1861 – 1865.

One problem that led to the Civil War was slavery. The states in the South believed that slavery should
be legal. They were afraid that states in the North wanted to make slavery illegal in the whole country. The
states in the North were also afraid that the Southern states wanted to make slavery legal in the whole
country.

The Civil War started in 1861 after 11 states in the South left the United States and tried to create their own
country. They called their country the Confederate States of America. The states in the North were still called
the United States of America.




Civil War Battle of Antietam.                              The United States in 1861, at the start of the Civil War.

                                                                                                                         59
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Abraham Lincoln led the United States during the Civil War. He was
the 16th President of the United States, and he served as President
from 1861 – 1865.

During the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation
Proclamation. The Emancipation Proclamation freed the slaves in
most Southern states. “Emancipation” is another word for “freedom.”
“Proclamation” is another word for “announcement.” The Emancipation
Proclamation announced that people who were enslaved in most
Southern states were free. Most people enslaved in Southern states were
not actually freed until after the Civil War was over.

The North won the Civil War when the South surrendered in April 1865.
A few days after the South surrendered to the North, Abraham Lincoln
was assassinated. The word “assassinated” means that a person is
murdered for political reasons.




                                                                          Abraham Lincoln




Abraham Lincoln visits a battlefield during the Civil War.                “Emancipation,” by Thomas Nast. Courtesy
                                                                          of the Library of Congress



  60                            ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                       CHAPTER 10: THE CIVIL WAR

THE END OF SLAVERY
After the Civil War was over, all the people who were enslaved in Southern states were freed. On June 19,
1865, enslaved people living in Galveston, Texas, became the last to learn that the Civil War was over and
that they were free. June 19th became a holiday called Juneteenth. Today, Juneteenth is a national U.S.
holiday that recognizes and celebrates the end of slavery in the United States.

On December 6, 1865, the 13th Amendment was added to the Constitution. An amendment is a change to
the Constitution. The 13th Amendment says that slavery is illegal in the United States.




                                                                                                        61
                             CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION




CHAPTER 11
AMERICAN HISTORY: 1900-2001
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The wars the U.S.             ❏ The Great Depression.                       ❏ The Civil Rights Movement.
  fought in the 1900s.          ❏ The Cold War.                               ❏ September 11, 2001.

                               By the 1900s, more people in the United States were moving to cities to
                               work in factories, and immigrants from all over the world were moving
                               to the U.S. The United States’ economy was starting to grow, and soon
                               the U.S. would begin to increase the size of its military.




                               Rubber-making factories on a river in 1897. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.


62                  ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                      CHAPTER 11: AMERICAN HISTORY 1900 - 2001

                                              WORLD WAR I
                                              In 1914, a war started in Europe. When the war started, it was called The
                                              Great War. Today, the Great War is called World War I. There were many
                                              countries fighting on each side of the war during World War I.

                                              World War I is one war fought by the United States in the 1900s.
                                              World War I was fought by countries from around the world from 1914
                                              – 1918, but the U.S. did not join the war until 1917. The U.S. fought in
                                              World War I from 1917 – 1918.

                                              World War I ended on November 11, 1918. Today, we celebrate Veterans’
                                              Day every November 11 in honor of the men and women (alive and
                                              deceased) who have served in the military. Veterans’ Day is a national
                                                                                  U.S. Holiday.

                                                                                           Woodrow Wilson was President
                                                                                           during World War I. Woodrow
                                                                                           Wilson was the 28th President
                                                                                           of the United States, and he was
                                                                                           President from 1913 – 1921.


                                                                                            Other wars that the United States
                                                                                            fought in the 1900s include:
                                                                                             ● World War II ● Vietnam War
American soldiers in a trench in France       Two sailors read a newspaper with the          ● Korean War ● (Persian) Gulf War
during World War I. Courtesy of the Library   headline “Great War Ends.” Courtesy of the
of Congress.                                  Library of Congress.


THE GREAT DEPRESSION
When President Roosevelt was elected in 1933, the U.S.
was in the Great Depression. The Great Depression was
the worst time for the U.S. economy in American history.

The economic system in the United States is called
a “capitalist economy”. It is also sometimes called
a “market economy”. In a market economy, the
government does not control the economy. Also, people
are free to start a business and make money.

The Great Depression had terrible effects on the
American economy. During the Great Depression, banks
and businesses around the country closed, and many
                                                                      Statue of a Depression         A migrant agricultural worker’s
people could not a get a job. A lot of people in the U.S.             breadline at the Franklin      family during the Great
lost their homes and their money.                                     Delano Roosevelt Memorial,     Depression. Photograph by
                                                                      Washington, D.C. Courtesy of   Dorothea Lange. Courtesy of
                                                                      the Library of Congress.       the Library of Congress.


                                                                                                                               63
FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT                        WORLD WAR II
In 1933, Franklin Roosevelt               In 1939, World War II started when Germany attacked Poland. Germany
was elected the 32nd President            then began to attack other European countries. Japan and Italy agreed
of the United States. Franklin            to fight on the same side as Germany.
Roosevelt was the longest-
serving President in U.S.                 World War II was one war that the U.S. fought in the 1900s.
history, and he was elected               The U.S. fought in World War II from 1941 – 1945.
President four times. He was
President from 1933 – 1945,               On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked the United States at a U.S. naval
and he died while serving as              base in Hawaii called Pearl Harbor. On December 8, President Roosevelt
President in 1945. In 1951,               announced that the U.S. would enter World War II. Later that day,
the 22nd amendment was                    Congress voted to declare war. The power to declare war is one power
added to the Constitution. An             that belongs to the federal government under the Constitution.
amendment is a change to
the Constitution. The 22nd                During World War II, the U.S. fought Japan, Germany, and Italy.
Amendment says a person can
only be elected President two             The U.S. did not fight these countries alone. The United Kingdom, France,
times.                                    Russia, and other countries fought against Japan, Germany, and Italy.
                                          World War II ended in 1945 when Germany and Japan surrendered.
Franklin Roosevelt was
President during two important
periods in American history.
He was President during the
Great Depression and World
War II.




President Franklin D. Roosevelt signing
the Declaration of War against Japan
on December 8, 1941. Courtesy of the
National Archives.                        Bombing of USS West Virginia, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.


 64                           ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                        CHAPTER 11: AMERICAN HISTORY 1900 - 2001

THE COLD WAR
When the United States fought in World War II, the U.S. and Russia fought
on the same side. Russia controlled many nearby countries. Russia, and
the countries it controlled, were called the Soviet Union. The U.S. and
the Soviet Union did not trust each other. After World War II, the United
States and the Soviet Union became involved in the Cold War.

During the Cold War, the main concern of the United States was the
spread of communism. Communism is a type of government in which
the government plans the economy and controls most of the resources.
Also, in most communist countries, the government is controlled by
one political party. Russia and all the countries in the Soviet Union
were communist. Other countries like China and North Korea were also
becoming communist. The U.S. wanted to stop other countries around
the world from becoming communist.

The Cold War did not have soldiers from the U.S. and the Soviet Union
fighting each other in battles. Instead, the U.S. and the Soviet Union had
diplomats and spies who used information and threats against each other.

In 1953, Dwight Eisenhower became the 34th President of the United
States. He served from 1953 – 1961. Before he was President,                  General Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1945.
Eisenhower was a general in World War II. While he was President,             Courtesy of the National Archives.
the U.S. and the Soviet Union were building large armies in case they
went to war. The U.S. and the Soviet Union also began trying to send
rockets into space. In 1957, the Soviet Union became the first country
to send a satellite into space. In 1969, the U.S. became the first country
to land a person on the moon.

The Cold War ended in 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed.




                                                               Soviet Union
                                         an
                              Atl
                                 ant
                                    ic
            United States              Oc
                                         e




This map shows the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cold War.    Astronaut Edwin E. Aldrin Jr., on the Moon.
                                                                              Courtesy of NASA.

                                                                                                                    65
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
During the 1900s, many states had laws that discriminated against
people based on their race. Some of these laws said that people
of different races had to go to separate schools, eat in separate
restaurants, and live in separate neighborhoods. Other laws made
it difficult for people to vote based on their race. Many of the states
that had these laws wanted to separate Black Americans from White
Americans. Some states had laws that discriminated against Latino
Americans and Asian Americans.

Soon after World War II ended, many people in the United States began
a movement to end racial discrimination. The movement to end
racial discrimination in the United States is called the Civil Rights
Movement.                                                                       Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., civil rights leader.

During the Civil Rights Movement, many people worked to end the laws
that separated people based on their race or made it difficult for people
to vote based on their race. For example, Martin Luther King, Jr.,
fought for civil rights. He was a leader in the Civil Rights Movement
who organized peaceful protests against racial discrimination and laws
that separated people by race. A lot of his work focused on fighting for
civil rights for Black Americans, but he wanted all people in the United
States to have civil rights.

There were also many Latino Americans, Asian Americans, and people
from other communities that helped lead the fight for civil rights. For
example, Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta were civil rights leaders
from the Latino American community.
                                                                                Dolores Huerta, civil rights leader.
The Civil Rights Movement led to many
changes in the United States. Martin Luther
King, Jr., and other civil rights leaders were
able to convince Congress to pass two laws that
protect civil rights and voting rights. In 1964,
Congress passed a law called the Civil Rights
Act. This law says it is illegal to discriminate
against someone based on their race, religion,
sex, or national origin. In 1965, Congress
passed another law called the Voting Rights
Act. This law says that states cannot deny
people the right to vote based on their race.

Today, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a national
holiday. We celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
on the third Monday in January.
                                                    The March on Washington in 1963.



 66                      ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                    CHAPTER 11: AMERICAN HISTORY 1900 - 2001

SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
On September 11, 2001, terrorists attacked the
United States.

Terrorists hijacked four airplanes. Two airplanes
crashed into the World Trade Center in New York
City. One plane crashed into the Pentagon in
Arlington, Virginia, near Washington, D.C. The
passengers on the fourth plane fought the terrorists
and the plane crashed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

Almost 3,000 people died in the September 11th
terrorist attacks. The September 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks were the worst attacks on the United States’
homeland since Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941.



                                                                    Firefighters unfurl a large American flag over the scarred stone
                                                                    of the Pentagon on September 12, 2001. White House photo by
                                                                    Paul Morse.




Rescue workers amid debris following September 11th terrorist attack on World Trade Center, New York City.


                                                                                                                                67
      TEST YOUR KNOWLEDGE…




68   ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                       CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS




CHAPTER 12
AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Statue of Liberty. ❏ The national anthem.
❏ The American flag.     ❏ National holidays that have special meaning in the United States.

                               AMERICAN SYMBOLS
                               The Statue of Liberty
                               The Statue of Liberty is a famous symbol of the United States. In 1886,
                               France gave the statue to the United States as a symbol of friendship.

                               It is a symbol of freedom and democracy. The Statue of Liberty is in
                               New York Harbor on Liberty Island. Every year, over 4 million people
                               from around the world visit the Statue of Liberty.

                               The statue is of a woman holding a torch in her right hand and a tablet
                               in her left hand. The tablet has the date July 4, 1776, on it. July 4, 1776,
                               is when the Declaration of Independence was adopted.




                               Statue of Liberty. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.


                                                                                                        69
Ellis Island
Ellis Island was an immigration station in New York Harbor. Ellis Island began receiving immigrants to the
United States on January 1, 1892. Over the next 62 years, more than 12 million immigrants arrived in the
United States through Ellis Island. Currently the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island are National Historic Sites.
For more information on the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, please visit: nps.gov/stli.




Immigration station at Ellis Island.                      Great Hall at Ellis Island immigration station.

Angel Island
Angel Island was another important immigration station on the West Coast. The Pacific Ocean is on the West
Coast of the United States. Between 1910 and 1940, Angel Island processed nearly 1 million immigrants that
crossed the Pacific Ocean. Many Asian Americans can trace their family history through Angel Island.




Immigration Station on Angel Island.

  70                            ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                             CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS

The American Flag
The American flag is an important symbol of the United States. Like the Statue of Liberty, it is also a symbol
of freedom. The colors of the flag are red, white, and blue. Each color on the flag has a meaning:
   ● Red is a symbol for bravery.
   ● White is a symbol for purity.
   ● Blue is a symbol for justice.
The flag has 13 red and white stripes. The stripes represent the 13 original colonies.
There are 50 stars on the flag. Each star represents a state.




The Pledge of Allegiance
We show loyalty to the flag and
the United States when we say
the Pledge of Allegiance.

During naturalization ceremonies,
everyone attending the ceremony
is asked to say the Pledge of
Allegiance. When we say it, we
stand, turn toward the flag, and
put our right hand over our heart.




                                      Students recite the Pledge of Allegiance.

                                                                                                           71
The National Anthem
The name of the national anthem is
“The Star-Spangled Banner”.

“Spangled” refers to the stars on the flag that look
like they are shining in night sky. The word “banner”
means flag.

The Star-Spangled Banner was written by Francis Scott
Key. He wrote it about seeing the American flag after
a battle during the War of 1812. The War of 1812 was
one war the U.S. fought in the 1800s.

                                                         In “The Star-Spangled Banner,” by Percy Moran, Francis Scott Key
                                                         reaches toward the flag flying over Fort McHenry.

AMERICAN HOLIDAYS                                        In 1965, Martin Luther King, Jr., and other civil rights
The following holidays are national holidays.            leaders, like John Lewis, helped to organize a march
National holidays are sometimes called “federal          from Selma, Alabama, to Montgomery, Alabama.
holidays” because they were passed by Congress           They organized the march to support voting rights
and signed into law by the President.                    for all U.S. citizens. Soon after the march from Selma
                                                         to Montgomery, Congress passed a law called the
The following federal holidays relate to other           Voting Rights Act of 1965.
content from the 128 Civics Questions and Answers.
                                                         Martin Luther King, Jr., was awarded the Nobel Prize
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day (Third Monday in January)    for Peace in 1964. He was assassinated on April 4, 1968.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a day that we honor the
life and work of Martin Luther King, Jr.                 The third Monday in January is Martin Luther King,
                                                         Jr. Day. It is a national holiday. There is also a
Martin Luther King, Jr., was a church and community      memorial in Washington, D.C., to honor him.
leader. He fought for civil rights by working to
protect the rights of individuals listed in the Bill
of Rights. For example, Martin Luther King, Jr.
believed that everyone should have rights and
freedoms listed in the First Amendment. The
First Amendment protects freedom of worship,
speech, the press, assembly, and the right to ask
the government for a change.

Martin Luther King, Jr., led many of the events during
the civil rights movement. The civil rights movement
tried to end racial discrimination. In 1963, Martin
Luther King, Jr., led the March on Washington for
Jobs and Freedom. He gave his famous “I Have a
Dream” speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial.
                                                         Martin Luther King, Jr., gave his famous “I Have a Dream” speech at
                                                         the Lincoln Memorial in 1963.

 72                      ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                              CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS

Presidents’ Day (Third Monday in February)
We celebrate Presidents’ Day to honor George
Washington and Abraham Lincoln.

George Washington was the first president of
the United States. He is also called the “Father of
Our Country”. President Washington was born on
February 22.

Abraham Lincoln was the 16th President of the United
States. He led the United States during the Civil
War. President Lincoln was born on February 12.
                                                          “George Washington at            Abraham Lincoln. Courtesy of
We celebrate Presidents’ Day on the third Monday in       Princeton,” by Charles Willson   the Library of Congress.
                                                          Peale. Courtesy of the U.S.
February because it is between President Washington’s     Senate.
birthday and President Lincoln’s birthday.

Memorial Day (Last Monday in May)                                                U.S. Holidays
Memorial Day honors men and women who died in                 ● New Year’s Day (January 1).
service to the United States. Memorial Day is the last
                                                              ● Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Monday in May.
                                                                (Third Monday in January).

Memorial Day was originally called Decoration Day,            ● Washington’s Birthday or Presidents’ Day
                                                                (Third Monday in February).
from decorating graves with flowers, wreaths, and
flags. People in the United States started to observe         ● Memorial Day (Last Monday in May).
Memorial Day more widely soon after the Civil War.            ● Juneteenth National Independence Day (June 19).
The Civil War was one war the U.S. fought in the              ● Independence Day (July 4).
1800s.
                                                              ● Labor Day (First Monday in September).
Today, Memorial Day is a national holiday. It is              ● Columbus Day (Second Monday in October).
commemorated at Arlington National Cemetery each              ● Veterans Day (November 11).
year with a ceremony in which a small American flag           ● Thanksgiving Day (Fourth Thursday in November).
is placed on each grave. We also fly the American flag
                                                              ● Christmas Day (December 25).
at half-staff to honor those who died in service to the
United States.




Arlington National Cemetery                               A member of the U.S. Army honor guard walks past the Tomb of the
                                                          Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery.

                                                                                                                     73
Juneteenth (June 19)
Juneteenth is a national holiday that recognizes the end of slavery in the United States.

In 1863, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. The Emancipation
Proclamation said the enslaved people in the Southern states were free. Slavery did not actually end
until the Civil War ended in 1865. On June 19, 1865, enslaved people in Galveston, Texas, became the last to
learn that they were free. This is why June 19th is called Juneteenth.

Independence Day (July 4)
Independence Day, or the Fourth of July, celebrates the Declaration of
Independence, or the birth of the nation.

The Declaration of Independence announced America’s
independence from Britain. Thomas Jefferson wrote the
Declaration of Independence as a statement of freedom from unfair
treatment from Great Britain. The Declaration of Independence was
adopted on July 4, 1776.

The Declaration of Independence highlights the importance of self-
government in the United States. It also inspired many countries
around the world to declare their own freedom.
                                                                          Independence Day celebrations at
                                                                          Independence Hall in Philadelphia,
Every year we celebrate Independence Day on July 4.                       Pennsylvania.




Military honor guard at a Veteran’s Day parade.

 74                            ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                     CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS

Veterans Day (November 11)
Veterans Day is a national holiday when we honor individuals who
have served in the U.S. Armed Forces (alive or deceased) in service of the
United States.

Veterans Day was originally called Armistice Day and celebrated the
end of World War I, which ended on November 11, 1918. World War I
is one war the U.S. fought in the 1900s. Woodrow Wilson was the
President of the United States during World War I. Armistice Day
was officially recognized by U.S. President Woodrow Wilson in 1919.
It began to be observed throughout the world, honoring those who
fought to end of the “Great War.”

In 1954, U.S. veterans asked Congress to write a law that changed the
name of Armistice Day to Veterans Day. The U.S. Congress makes
federal laws. On June 1, 1954, Congress passed a law for Veterans Day
to be a national holiday to honor men and women (alive or deceased)
who have served in the U.S. military.
                                                                             “Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima,”
Today, we celebrate Veterans Day each year on November 11.                   photographed by Joe Rosenthal.
                                                                             Courtesy of the Associated Press, 1945.
Thanksgiving (Fourth Thursday in November)
Thanksgiving is a national U.S. holiday that is celebrated on the fourth Thursday in November.
Thanksgiving celebrates a harvest meal shared by Native Americans and English colonists in 1621. In
November 1621, English colonists were trying to create a colony in Massachusetts. A Native American tribe
called the Wampanoag gathered with the colonists in the fall for a harvest feast.

Today, the people in the United States gather with family and friends on Thanksgiving to share a meal and
reflect on the reasons why they are thankful.




An early Thanksgiving celebration.

                                                                                                                 75
76   ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                    INDEX


A: Principles of American Government                   8.   Why is the Declaration of Independence
                                                            important?
1.   What is the form of government of                       • It says America is free from British control.
     the United States?                                      • It says all people are created equal.
      • Republic                                             • It identifies inherent rights.
      • Constitution-based federal republic                  • It identifies individual freedoms.
      • Representative democracy
                                                       9.   What founding document said the American
2.   What is the supreme law of the land? *                 colonies were free from Britain?
     • (U.S.) Constitution                                   • Declaration of Independence

3.   Name one thing the U.S. Constitution does.        10. Name two important ideas from the
     • Forms the government                                Declaration of Independence and
                                                           the U.S. Constitution.
     • Defines powers of government
                                                            • Equality
     • Defines the parts of government
                                                            • Liberty
     • Protects the rights of the people
                                                            • Social contract
4.   The U.S. Constitution starts with the                  • Natural rights
     words“We the People.” What does                        • Limited government
     “We the People” mean?                                  • Self-government
     • Self-government
     • Popular sovereignty                             11. The words “Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of
     • Consent of the governed                             Happiness” are in what founding document?
     • People should govern themselves                     • Declaration of Independence
     • (Example of) social contract
                                                       12. What is the economic system of
                                                           the United States?*
5.   How are changes made to
     the U.S. Constitution?                                 • Capitalism
      • Amendments                                          • Free market economy
      • The amendment process
                                                       13. What is the rule of law?
6.   What does the Bill of Rights protect?                 • Everyone must follow the law.
     • (The basic) rights of Americans                     • Leaders must obey the law.
     • (The basic) rights of people living in the          • Government must obey the law.
       United States                                       • No one is above the law.

7.   How many amendments does the
     U.S. Constitution have? *
     • Twenty-seven (27)



                                                                                                           77
                              128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS


14. Many documents influenced the                  21. How many U.S. senators are there?
    U.S. Constitution. Name one.                       • One hundred (100)
    • Declaration of Independence
    • Articles of Confederation                    22. How long is a term for a U.S. senator?
    • Federalist Papers                                • Six (6) years
    • Anti-Federalist Papers
    • Virginia Declaration of Rights               23. Who is one of your state’s U.S. senators now?
    • Fundamental Orders of Connecticut                • Answers will vary. [District of Columbia
                                                         residents and residents of U.S. territories
    • Mayflower Compact                                  should answer that D.C. (or the territory
    • Iroquois Great Law of Peace                        where the applicant lives) has no U.S.
                                                         senators.]
15. There are three branches of government. Why?
    • So one part does not become too powerful     24. How many voting members are in
                                                       the House of Representatives?
    • Checks and balances
                                                        • Four hundred thirty-five (435)
    • Separation of powers

B: System of Government                            25. How long is a term for a member of
                                                       the House of Representatives?
16. Name the three branches of government.              • Two (2) years
    • Legislative, executive, and judicial
                                                   26. Why do U.S. representatives serve
    • Congress, president, and the courts
                                                       shorter terms than U.S. senators?
                                                        • To more closely follow public opinion
17. The President of the United States is in
    charge of which branch of government?
                                                   27. How many senators does each state have?
     • Executive branch
                                                       • Two (2)
18. What part of the federal government
    writes laws?                                   28. Why does each state have two senators?
    • (U.S.) Congress                                  • Equal representation (for small states)
    • (U.S. or national) legislature                   • The Great Compromise (Connecticut
                                                         Compromise)
    • Legislative branch

                                                   29. Name your U.S. representative.
19. What are the two parts of the U.S. Congress?
                                                       • Answers will vary. [Residents of territories
    • Senate and House (of Representatives)              with nonvoting Delegates or Resident
                                                         Commissioners may provide the name of that
20. Name one power of the U.S. Congress. *               Delegate or Commissioner. Also acceptable
    • Writes laws                                        is any statement that the territory has no
                                                         (voting) representatives in Congress.]
    • Declares war
    • Makes the federal budget


 78                     ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                     INDEX


30. What is the name of the Speaker of the              38. What is the name of the President of
    House of Representatives now?*                          the United States now?*
    • Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates for            • Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates for the
      the name of the Speaker of the House of                  name of the President of the United States.
      Representatives.
                                                        39. What is the name of the Vice President of
31. Who does a U.S. senator represent?                      the United States now?*
    • Citizens of their state                                • Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates
    • People of their state                                    for the name of the Vice President of the
                                                               United States.
32. Who elects U.S. senators?
                                                        40. If the president can no longer serve,
    • Citizens from their state                             who becomes president?
                                                             • The Vice President (of the United States)
33. Who does a member of the House
    of Representatives represent?
                                                        41. Name one power of the president.
    • Citizens in their (congressional) district
                                                            • Signs bills into law
    • Citizens in their district
                                                            • Vetoes bills
    • People from their (congressional) district
                                                            • Enforces laws
    • People in their district
                                                            • Commander in Chief (of the military)
34. Who elects members of the                               • Chief diplomat
    House of Representatives?                               • Appoints federal judges
    • Citizens from their (congressional) district
                                                        42. Who is Commander in Chief
35. Some states have more representatives                   of the U.S. military?
    than other states. Why?                                 • The President (of the United States)
     • (Because of) the state’s population
     • (Because) they have more people                  43. Who signs bills to become laws?
     • (Because) some states have more people               • The President (of the United States)


36. The President of the United States is               44. Who vetoes bills? *
    elected for how many years?*                            • The President (of the United States)
    • Four (4) years
                                                        45. Who appoints federal judges?
37. The President of the United States                      • The President (of the United States)
    can serve only two terms. Why?
     • (Because of) the 22nd Amendment
     • To keep the president from becoming too
       powerful




                                                                                                           79
                               128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS


46. The executive branch has                         49. Why is the Electoral College important?
    many parts. Name one.                                • It decides who is elected president.
    • President (of the United States)                   • It provides a compromise between the
    • Cabinet                                              popular election of the president and
    • Federal departments and agencies                     congressional selection.


47. What does the President’s Cabinet do?            50. What is one part of the judicial branch?
    • Advises the President (of the United States)       • Supreme Court
                                                         • Federal Courts
48. What are two Cabinet-level positions?
    • Attorney General                               51. What does the judicial branch do?
    • Secretary of Agriculture                           • Reviews laws
    • Secretary of Commerce                              • Explains laws
    • Secretary of Education                             • Resolves disputes (disagreements) about the law
    • Secretary of Energy                                • Decides if a law goes against the (U.S.)
                                                           Constitution
    • Secretary of Health and Human Services
    • Secretary of Homeland Security                 52. What is the highest court in the United States?*
    • Secretary of Housing and Urban Development         • Supreme Court
    • Secretary of the Interior
    • Secretary of Labor                             53. How many seats are on the Supreme Court?
    • Secretary of State                                 • Nine (9)
    • Secretary of Transportation
    • Secretary of the Treasury                      54. How many Supreme Court justices are
    • Secretary of Veterans Affairs                      usually needed to decide a case?
    • Secretary of War (Defense)                         • Five (5)
    • Vice-President
                                                     55. How long do Supreme Court justices serve?
    • Administrator of the Environmental
      Protection Agency                                  • (For) life
    • Administrator of the Small Business                • Lifetime appointment
      Administration                                     • (Until) retirement
    • Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
    • Director of the Office of Management and       56. Supreme Court justices serve for life. Why?
      Budget                                             • To be independent (of politics)
    • Director of National Intelligence                  • To limit outside (political) influence
    • United States Trade Representative
                                                     57. Who is the Chief Justice of the
                                                         United States now?
                                                         • Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates for the
                                                           name of the Chief Justice of the United States.


 80                      ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                     INDEX


58. Name one power that is only for                     63. There are four amendments to the
    the federal government.                                 U.S. Constitution about who can vote.
     • Print paper money                                    Describe one of them.
     • Mint coins                                           • Citizens eighteen (18) and older (can vote).
     • Declare war                                          • You don’t have to pay (a poll tax) to vote.
     • Create an army                                       • Any citizen can vote. (Women and men can vote.)
     • Make treaties                                        • A male citizen of any race (can vote).
     • Set foreign policy
                                                        64. Who can vote in federal elections,
                                                            run for federal office, and serve on
59. Name one power that is only for the states.
                                                            a jury in the United States?
    • Provide schooling and education
                                                             • Citizens
    • Provide protection (police)
                                                             • Citizens of the United States
    • Provide safety (fire departments)
                                                             • U.S. citizens
    • Give a driver’s license
    • Approve zoning and land use                       65. What are three rights of everyone
                                                            living in the United States?
60. What is the purpose of the 10th Amendment?               • Freedom of expression
    • (It states that the) powers not given to the           • Freedom of speech
      federal government belong to the states
      or to the people.                                      • Freedom of assembly
                                                             • Freedom to petition the government
61. Who is the governor of your state now? *                 • Freedom of religion
    • Answers will vary. [District of Columbia               • The right to bear arms
      residents should answer that D.C. does not
      have a governor.]                                 66. What do we show loyalty to when we
                                                            say the Pledge of Allegiance?*
62. What is the capital of your state?                       • The United States
    • Answers will vary. [District of Columbia               • The flag
      residents should answer that D.C. is not a
      state and does not have a capital. Residents of
      U.S. territories should name the capital of the   67. Name two promises that new citizens
      territory.]                                           make in the Oath of Allegiance.
                                                            • Give up loyalty to other countries
C: Rights and Responsibilities                              • Defend the (U.S.) Constitution
                                                            • Obey the laws of the United States
                                                            • Serve in the military (if needed)
                                                            • Serve (help, do important work for)
                                                              the nation (if needed)
                                                            • Be loyal to the United States




                                                                                                         81
                                  128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS


68. How can people become United States citizens?            72. It is important for all men age 18 through
    • Be born in the United States, under the                    25 to register for the Selective Service.
      conditions set by the 14th Ammendment.                     Name one reason why.
    • Naturalize                                                  • Required by law
    • Derive citizenship (under the conditions                    • Civic duty
      set by Congress)                                            • Makes the draft fair, if needed

69. What are two examples of civic participation             AMERICAN HISTORY
    in the United States?                                    A: Colonial Period and Independence
     • Vote
     • Run for office                                        73. The colonists came to America for
                                                                 many reasons. Name one.
     • Join a political party
                                                                 • Freedom
     • Help with a campaign
                                                                 • Political liberty
     • Join a civic group
                                                                 • Religious freedom
     • Join a community group
                                                                 • Economic opportunity
     • Give an elected official your opinion (on an issue)
                                                                 • Escape persecution
     • Contact elected officials
     • Support or oppose an issue or policy
                                                             74. Who lived in America before
     • Write to a newspaper                                      the Europeans arrived?*
                                                                  • American Indians
70. What is one way Americans can
                                                                  • Native Americans
    serve their country?
     • Vote
                                                             75. What group of people was taken
     • Pay taxes                                                 and sold as slaves?
     • Obey the law                                              • Africans
     • Serve in the military                                     • People from Africa
     • Run for office
     • Work for local, state, or federal government          76. What war did the Americans fight to
                                                                 win independence from Britain?
71. Why is it important to pay federal taxes?                    • American Revolution
    • Required by law                                            • The (American) Revolutionary War
    • All people pay to fund the federal government              • War for (American) Independence
    • Required by the (U.S.) Constitution (16th
      Amendment)
    • Civic duty




 82                        ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                     INDEX


77. Name one reason why the Americans                   81. There were 13 original states.
    declared independence from Britain.                     Name five.
    • High taxes                                            • New Hampshire
    • Taxation without representation                       • Massachusetts
    • British soldiers stayed in Americans’ houses          • Rhode Island
      (boarding, quartering)                                • Connecticut
    • They did not have self-government                     • New York
    • Boston Massacre                                       • New Jersey
    • Boston Tea Party (Tea Act)                            • Pennsylvania
    • Stamp Act                                             • Delaware
    • Sugar Act                                             • Maryland
    • Townshend Acts                                        • Virginia
    • Intolerable (Coercive) Acts                           • North Carolina
                                                            • South Carolina
78. Who wrote the Declaration of Independence?*
                                                            • Georgia
    • (Thomas) Jefferson
                                                        82. What founding document was written in 1787?
79. When was the Declaration of
                                                            • (U.S.) Constitution
    Independence adopted?
     • July 4, 1776
                                                        83. The Federalist Papers supported the passage of
                                                            the U.S. Constitution. Name one of the writers.
80. The American Revolution had many
                                                             • (James) Madison
    important events. Name one.
                                                             • (Alexander) Hamilton
     • (Battle of) Bunker Hill
                                                             • (John) Jay
     • Declaration of Independence
                                                             • Publius
     • Washington Crossing the Delaware
       (Battle of Trenton)
     • (Battle of) Saratoga                             84. Why were the Federalist Papers important?
     • Valley Forge (Encampment)                            • They helped people understand the (U.S.)
                                                              Constitution.
     • (Battle of) Yorktown
                                                            • They supported passing the (U.S.)
     • (British surrender at Yorktown)                        Constitution.

                                                        85. Benjamin Franklin is famous for many things.
                                                            Name one.
                                                            • Founded the first free public libraries
                                                            • First Postmaster General of the United States
                                                            • Helped write the Declaration of Independence
                                                            • Inventor
                                                            • U.S. diplomat


                                                                                                       83
                               128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS


86. George Washington is famous for many things.      91. Name one war fought by the United States
    Name one.*                                            in the 1800s.
    • “Father of Our Country”                              • War of 1812
    • First president of the United States                 • Mexican-American War
    • General of the Continental Army                      • Civil War
    • President of the Constitutional Convention           • Spanish-American War

87. Thomas Jefferson is famous for many things.       92. Name the U.S. war between
    Name one.                                             the North and the South.
    • Writer of the Declaration of Independence            • The Civil War
    • Third president of the United States
    • Doubled the size of the United States           93. The Civil War had many import-
      (Louisiana Purchase)                                ant events. Name one.
    • First Secretary of State                            • (Battle of) Fort Sumter
    • Founded the University of Virginia                  • Emancipation Proclamation
    • Writer of the Virginia Statute on                   • (Battle of) Vicksburg
      Religious Freedom                                   • (Battle of) Gettysburg
                                                          • Sherman’s March
88. James Madison is famous for many things.              • (Surrender at) Appomattox
    Name one.
                                                          • (Battle of) Antietam/Sharpsburg
    • “Father of the Constitution”
                                                          • Lincoln was assassinated.
    • Fourth president of the United States
    • President during the War of 1812                94. Abraham Lincoln is famous for many things.
    • One of the writers of the Federalist Papers         Name one.*
                                                          • Freed the slaves (Emancipation Proclamation)
89. Alexander Hamilton is famous for many things.         • Saved (or preserved) the Union
    Name one.
                                                          • Led the United States during the Civil War
    • First Secretary of the Treasury
                                                          • 16th president of the United States
    • One of the writers of the Federalist Papers
                                                          • Delivered the Gettysburg Address
    • Helped establish the First Bank of the United
       States
                                                      95. What did the Emancipation Proclamation do?
    • Aide to General George Washington
                                                          • Freed the slaves
    • Member of the Continental Congress
                                                          • Freed slaves in the Confederacy
B: 1800s                                                  • Freed slaves in the Confederate states
                                                          • Freed slaves in most Southern states
90. What territory did the United States
    buy from France in 1803?                          96. What U.S. war ended slavery?
    • Louisiana Territory                                 • The Civil War
    • Louisiana


 84                      ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                      INDEX


97. What amendment says all persons born or              102. When did all women get the right to vote?
    naturalized in the United States, and subject             • 1920
    to the jurisdiction thereof, are U.S. citizens?
                                                              • After World War I
     • 14th Amendment
                                                              • (With the) 19th Amendment

98. When did all men get the right to vote?
                                                         103. What was the Great Depression?
    • After the Civil War
                                                              • Longest economic recession in modern history
    • During Reconstruction
    • (With the) 15th Amendment                          104. When did the Great Depression start?
    • 1870                                                    • The Great Crash (1929)
                                                              • Stock market crash of 1929
99. Name one leader of the women’s rights
    movement in the 1800s.
                                                         105. Who was president during the Great
    • Susan B. Anthony                                        Depression and World War II?
    • Elizabeth Cady Stanton                                  • (Franklin) Roosevelt
    • Sojourner Truth
    • Harriet Tubman                                     106. Why did the United States enter World War II?
    • Lucretia Mott                                           • (Bombing of) Pearl Harbor
    • Lucy Stone                                              • Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor
                                                              • To support the Allied Powers
C: Recent American History and Other                            (England, France, and Russia)
Important Historical Information                              • To oppose the Axis Powers
                                                                (Germany, Italy, and Japan)
100. Name one war fought by the United States
     in the 1900s.                                       107. Dwight Eisenhower is famous for
      • World War I                                           many things. Name one.
      • World War II                                          • General during World War II
      • Korean War                                            • President at the end of (during) the Korean War
      • Vietnam War                                           • 34th president of the United States
      • (Persian) Gulf War                                    • Signed the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956
                                                                (Created the Interstate System)
101. Why did the United States enter World War I?
     • Because Germany attacked U.S. (civilian) ships    108. Who was the United States’ main rival
                                                              during the Cold War?
     • To support the Allied Powers
       (England, France, Italy, and Russia)                   • Soviet Union
     • To oppose the Central Powers                           • USSR
       (Germany, Austria-Hungary,                             • Russia
       the Ottoman Empire, and Bulgaria)




                                                                                                          85
                                128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS


109. During the Cold War, what was one                    116. Name one U.S. military conflict af-
     main concern of the United States?                        ter the September 11, 2001 attacks.
     • Communism                                                • (Global) War on Terror
     • Nuclear war                                              • War in Afghanistan
                                                                • War in Iraq
110. Why did the United States enter
     the Korean War?                                      117. Name one American Indian
      • To stop the spread of communism                        tribe in the United States.
                                                                • Apache
111. Why did the United States en-                              • Blackfeet
     ter the Vietnam War?
                                                                • Cayuga
      • To stop the spread of communism
                                                                • Cherokee
                                                                • Cheyenne
112. What did the civil rights movement do?
                                                                • Chippewa
     • Fought to end racial discrimination
                                                                • Choctaw
113. Martin Luther King, Jr. is famous                          • Creek
     for many things. Name one.*                                • Crow
      • Fought for civil rights                                 • Hopi
      • Worked for equality for all Americans                   • Huron
      • Worked to ensure that people would “not be              • Inupiat
        judged by the color of their skin, but by the           • Lakota
        content of their character”
                                                                • Mohawk
                                                                • Mohegan
114. Why did the United States enter the
     Persian Gulf War?                                          • Navajo
     • To force the Iraqi military from Kuwait                  • Oneida
                                                                • Onondaga
115. What major event happened on September                     • Pueblo
     11, 2001 in the United States? *                           • Seminole
     • Terrorists attacked the United States                    • Seneca
     • Terrorists took over two planes and crashed them         • Shawnee
       into the World Trade Center in New York City
                                                                • Sioux
     • Terrorists took over a plane and crashed into
       the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia                      • Teton
     • Terrorists took over a plane originally aimed            • Tuscarora
       at Washington, D.C., and crashed in a field in            For a complete list of tribes, please visit bia.gov.
       Pennsylvania




 86                       ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK
                                                      INDEX


118. Name one example of an American innovation.         B: Holidays
     • Light bulb
     • Automobile (cars, internal combustion en-         125. What is Independence Day?
       gine)                                                  • A holiday to celebrate U.S. independence
     • Skyscrapers                                              (from Britain)
     • Airplane                                               • The country’s birthday
     • Assembly line
                                                         126. Name three national U.S. holidays. *
     • Landing on the moon
                                                              • New Year’s Day
     • Integrated circuit (IC)
                                                              • Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS                                          • Presidents Day (Washington’s Birthday)
A: Symbols                                                    • Memorial Day
                                                              • Juneteenth
119. What is the capital of the United States?
                                                              • Independence Day
     • Washington, D.C.
                                                              • Labor Day
                                                              • Columbus Day
120. Where is the Statue of Liberty?
                                                              • Veterans Day
     • New York (Harbor)
                                                              • Thanksgiving Day
     • Liberty Island [Also acceptable are
       New Jersey, near New York City, and                    • Christmas Day
       on the Hudson (River).]
                                                         127. What is Memorial Day?
121. Why does the flag have 13 stripes? *                     • A holiday to honor soldiers who died in mili-
     • (Because there were) 13 original colonies                tary service
     • (Because the stripes) represent the original
       colonies                                          128. What is Veterans Day?
                                                              • A holiday to honor people in the (U.S.) military
122. Why does the flag have 50 stars?                         • A holiday to honor people who have served
     • (Because there is) one star for each state               (in the U.S. military)
     • (Because) each star represents a state
     • (Because there are) 50 states

123. What is the name of the national anthem?
     • The Star-Spangled Banner

124. The Nation’s first motto was “E Pluri-
     bus Unum.” What does that mean?
     • Out of many, one
     • We all become one



                                                                                                           87
                 MD-1175
   One Nation, One People:
The USCIS 2025 Civics Test
               Study Guide
